.TH EUR_LEX_LOADER 1 2026-05-03 "eur-lex-loader" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
eur_lex_loader \- parse a Formex EU act directory and output JSON
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eur_lex_loader
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIDIR\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B eur_lex_loader
parses a Formex 4 XML publication directory and writes the full act
structure as JSON to standard output (or to a file with
.BR \-\-output ).
.PP
The directory must contain a registry file matching
.I *.doc.fmx.xml
or
.IR *.doc.xml ,
which lists the main act file and any annex files.
Such a directory is typically obtained by running
.BR eur_lex_fetch (1)
or by manually downloading and extracting the ZIP archive from the
EUR-Lex Cellar API.
.PP
As a convenience,
.B \-\-celex
can fetch the act on the fly from EUR-Lex Cellar without saving the
Formex files to disk.
For repeated use of the same act, prefer
.BR eur_lex_fetch (1)
to avoid redundant network requests.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I DIR
Path to a local Formex act directory.
Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-celex .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-celex " \fICELEX\fR"
Fetch the act from EUR-Lex Cellar by CELEX number instead of reading a
local directory.
Mutually exclusive with
.IR DIR .
The language is always English when using this option; use
.BR eur_lex_fetch (1)
for other languages.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " \fIFILE\fR"
Write JSON output to
.I FILE
instead of standard output.
.TP
.B \-\-compact
Output compact (minified) JSON.
Default is pretty-printed.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH OUTPUT
A single JSON object containing:
.TP
.B title
Full title of the act.
.TP
.B preamble
Opening formula, legal basis citations (visas), numbered recitals, and
enacting formula.
.TP
.B enacting_terms
Operative body: chapters containing either sections or articles directly.
Each article has numbered paragraphs, each paragraph has alineas
(plain text or lists, possibly nested).
.TP
.B annexes
Each annex has a number, an optional subtitle, and
.B content
which is either
.B Sections
(titled sub-divisions) or
.B Paragraphs
(flat numbered paragraphs and lists).
.TP
.B definitions
Present only when the act contains a Definitions article.
A map from defined term to the full definition text as it appears in
the act.
.SH EXAMPLES
Parse a locally extracted regulation:
.PP
.RS
.EX
eur_lex_loader data/EU_AI_ACT
.EE
.RE
.PP
Write compact JSON to a file:
.PP
.RS
.EX
eur_lex_loader data/EU_AI_ACT \-\-compact \-\-output ai_act.json
.EE
.RE
.PP
Fetch the Digital Services Act on the fly and pipe into
.BR jq (1):
.PP
.RS
.EX
eur_lex_loader \-\-celex 32022R2065 | jq '.preamble.recitals | length'
.EE
.RE
.PP
Look up a definition:
.PP
.RS
.EX
eur_lex_loader data/EU_AI_ACT | jq '.definitions["AI system"]'
.EE
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
I/O error, XML parse error, missing required element, network error
(when using
.BR \-\-celex ),
or JSON serialisation failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR eur_lex_fetch (1)
