.TH EUR_LEX_FETCH 1 2026-05-03 "eur-lex-loader" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
eur_lex_fetch \- fetch and extract a Formex EU act from EUR-Lex Cellar
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eur_lex_fetch
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICELEX\fR \fIDIR\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B eur_lex_fetch
downloads a Formex 4 XML publication from the EUR-Lex Cellar repository
by CELEX number, extracts the ZIP archive into a local directory, and
prints the act title to standard output for verification.
.PP
Progress messages (fetch start, extraction path) are written to standard
error so they do not interfere with piping or redirecting the title.
.PP
The extracted directory can be passed directly to
.BR eur_lex_loader (1)
to parse the act and produce JSON.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I CELEX
CELEX number identifying the act to fetch, e.g.\&
.BR 32024R1689
for the EU AI Act or
.BR 32022R2065
for the Digital Services Act.
The format is: sector (3) + year + type (R\~=\~Regulation, L\~=\~Directive)
+ sequential number.
.TP
.I DIR
Directory where the Formex files will be extracted.
Created if it does not already exist.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-lang " \fILANG\fR"
Language of the publication to request, as an ISO\~639-2/B three-letter
code.
Default:
.BR eng .
Common values:
.RS
.TP
.B eng
English (default)
.TP
.B fra
French
.TP
.B deu
German
.TP
.B ita
Italian
.TP
.B spa
Spanish
.RE
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Fetch the EU AI Act in English into
.IR data/EU_AI_ACT :
.PP
.RS
.EX
eur_lex_fetch 32024R1689 data/EU_AI_ACT
.EE
.RE
.PP
Fetch the Digital Services Act in French:
.PP
.RS
.EX
eur_lex_fetch 32022R2065 data/DSA_FR \-\-lang fra
.EE
.RE
.PP
Fetch and immediately parse into compact JSON:
.PP
.RS
.EX
eur_lex_fetch 32024R1689 data/EU_AI_ACT
eur_lex_loader data/EU_AI_ACT \-\-compact \-\-output ai_act.json
.EE
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Network error, HTTP error, ZIP extraction failure, or parse error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR eur_lex_loader (1)
